Hello and welcome back to the course on Deep Learning.
Today we're talking about Contractive Autoencoders.
This is going to be a very quick tutorial just to introduce
the concept and then we'll advise some further reading where
you can dig deeper into it.
So, contractive autoencoders.
This is another regularization technique
just like sparse autoencoders and denoising autoencoders
which is designed to combat the problem when we have
an over-complete hidden layer in the autoencoder
like we have here so that the problem that we have
is that the autoencoder can just simply take the inputs,
copy them into the hidden layer
and then copy them into the output
without actually learning any valuable
feature extraction in its training
and that's what we want it to do.
We want it to be able to extract features.
And, so, what the contractive autoencoder does
is it leverages the whole process,
this whole training process where
information goes through the autoencoder,
then we get the outputs
and then they are compared to the inputs.
Well, contractive autoencoders, they add a penalty
into this loss-function that's going back through the,
has been propagated back through the network
and it specifically doesn't allow the autoencoder
to just simply just copy these values across.
How it works, we're not going to go into detail on that
because it is very complex,
there's quite a lot of math behind it,
and we're just going to recommend a wonderful article
here by Salah Rifai,
it's called "Contractive Auto-Encoders:
Explicit Invariance During Feature Extraction".
And what I also wanted to mention
is that this article has quite a lot of authors.
It has I think five authors,
and one of them is Yoshua Benjio,
so quite an in-depth study into the topic.
So from this tutorial the takeaway is that
there is such a thing as contractive autoencoders
and based actually on this article
they say that they can even get better results
than denoising autoencoders on some certain data sets.
And so it's just important to be aware
of the fact that contractive autoencoders exist
and if you ever need to dig deeper
1into contractive autoencoders,
or if you would like to learn more about them,
this is the best place to get started,
this specific paper by Salah Rifai,
and others including Yoshua Benjio.
And that's it for today,
I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then, enjoy Deep Learning.